Welcome back. In this lesson, you will be introduced
to another tool to help you override
the negativity buts. Martin Seligman, Dr. Robert Emmons of the
University of California, Davis, and Dr. Michael McCullough of the University of
Miami are amongst the fewer researchers
who published works on the impact of
gratitude and well-being. Most of the studies related to the study of
gratitude reveal that the consistent practice of
recognizing the positives in our lives has a positive
impact on our well-being, our general outlook on life, and even how much we exercise. Gratitude takes its roots in Latin word gratias,
which means thankful. As you might have guessed by now, the process of an agile
transformation is about much more than just redefining our
relationship with change. It is about approaching
our being as a system in which all components interact
and influence one another. For example, our physiology influences our psychology
and vice versa. Gratitude is another dimension of the comprehensive system you have been analyzing and reprogramming over
the last few weeks. The practice of gratitude helps manage and override
our negativity bias. It focuses our
attention on everything that we could be thankful
for in our lives. These are the things we might be taking for granted
most of the time. What could you be grateful for? Maybe you have a
supportive family or perhaps a stranger
who was kind to you. Maybe someone held the door open for you or simply smiled at you. A lot of good happens
in our lives daily, but our negativity bias
doesn't care about any of it. It brings negative
events, thoughts, and scenarios to the forefront and forces us to pay
attention to them. It does its job really well. It's our job to
manage it so we don't fall victim to our
own negativity bias. A practice of gratitude helped me get through one of the most
challenging times of my life. When I was alone, I had no money, no friends and support, and I wasn't sure
how I was going to get out of it and
when it would happen. As I mentioned, I
didn't have any money, but once a month I would go to Starbucks to get the
five-dollar cup of coffee. I would sit at the coffee shop, savor the beverage, and
feel the gratitude for it. Somehow the experience of appreciation and gratitude
melted the worries, fears, and stress away. I don't know what
your life is like, but I know this; there is always something to
be thankful for. The fact that we're alive and the fact that there is sunrise
and would get another chance. But I know sometimes it's
really difficult to find gratitude in the
moment, and it's okay. When you are ready
to find gratitude, ask yourself, what could
I be grateful for? There are a few techniques
for practicing gratitude. One, keeping your
gratitude journal. Two, asking yourself
what you're grateful for during your morning
or evening reflection. Three, writing a
gratitude letter to someone who you haven't
had a chance to thank. Four, simply saying thank you. Five, setting your reminder in your calendar to take a pause, remember what you are or could be grateful for and
really feeling it. In your wordbook, think of two things you could be
grateful for right now, and work through the exercise to test drive a practice
of gratitude. Approach it. Don't
just write it down, feel the graduate if you can. I'll see you in the next lesson.