Welcome and let's get started. In this lesson, you will
learn how to train your brain core resilience.
What is stillness? Stillness is a form of
psychological training of shifting from engaging with
thoughts to observing them. It's sometimes referred to as
mindfulness or meditation. What's stillness? There
is a component of being still in addition
to observation. It's a state of not acting upon physical urges created
by our bodies. If practiced consistently, stillness may lead to
mastery over anxiety, depression, cravings,
and impulses. In this course, we're working on our psychological
state holistically. Stillness is an
essential tool for us. If you want to become
a truly agile leader, consider all aspects of your
emotional hygiene and employ tools that will
help you fine tune it. Think of a workout. The tonal particular
muscle group. We're not just doing the
same exercise day after day. We must use many
different exercises to target different
muscles effectively. Meditation is one
of those exercises. It trains our brains
in a very unique way. It's effects can not be
replicated by any other practice. Studies have shown that after
eight weeks of meditation, the amygdala was less reactive to disturbing events that typically provoked fear and anxiety. You might say, I have tried
meditation, it's not for me. Well, how many different
meditations have your tried? How long did you do it for? Even if you have tried meditating before and it didn't
work for you, I encourage you to
keep exploring it. There are a few
things to consider. First, sometimes it might not be the right time for you to find your perfect practice
of stillness. Planetary alignment
is off and it's the year of the ninth generation
of cicadas coming out, and you [inaudible] got
birds in the morning. I'm being facetious but sometimes
it's just not the time. Second; sometimes it takes a thousand people
to tell you about the same exact thing
until it finally clicks. Whatever it is for
you, my point is not to completely discard
the idea because the initial attempts
did not yield anything or didn't yield much. For me personally, it took
me about seven years of trial and error to find a stillness practice
that worked for me. One day, the cars just
fell together perfectly. I was in search for a
solution that would stop my brain from ruining
and overtaking my life. I was looking for
something that would have a noticeable impact
on my well-being. I was also committed
to taking action. In that moment, I found stillness practice that
stuck with me for years. There are four major types of meditation: guided meditation, timed meditation, self-guided, Zen-sitting and
transcendental meditation. This list is definitely
not a comprehensive. My personal favorite is a guided meditation
by Dr. Joe Dispenza. It was the first
meditation that created such a powerful and
pleasurable state of gratitude that they couldn't help but to go back for more. The other technique I practice consistently is
transcendental meditation. I like it because it has a clearly defined scientific
hypothesis behind it. It's also structured. I practice it for 20 minutes
every day, and it's simple. It's root and anchoring
so it sticks. My advice for finding
your technique that works for you is to experiment, try it out and see
if it works for you. Give it some time to have
an impact on your state. Personally, I can absolutely tell the difference between
the times when I meditate and when I don't. Prioritize yourself. Not having time is
a lousy excuse for not finding time to
replenish your own will. Look, I don't know your
life and your situation, but at one point,
you have to make a decision to
prioritize yourself. That's why they tell
you on an airplane, to put your own mask first
before helping others. Prioritizing myself was one of the most difficult things in my life I had to learn how to do. As a woman brought up in a
culture where a woman takes care of the family and
household before herself, I felt bad for blocking
time for self-care. I was putting myself at the end of my to-do-list constantly. I found that year after year, I never got to the
bottom of my to-do list. My partner, my work, my house, and even my
dogs came before me. One day, I woke up feeling apathy for life and reached
a point of burnout. I hope that you'll never
experience this for yourself. By finding even the
shortest amount of time for yourself daily, you will be able to
support and replenish your emotional and
physical resources. To begin exploring
various meditations, checkout the Insight Timer app. It's free and it's perfect for experimentation and tracking. Now, in your workbook, complete the stillness section, select the meditation and schedule time on your
calendar to practice. I'll see you in the next lesson.