In today's lesson,
you will learn one of the most important tools for becoming
resilient, reflection. Reflection is a practice
of acknowledging and processing our
thoughts and experiences. Reflection is the key
element for building self-awareness,
for taking action, for processing emotions,
and ultimately for transforming ourselves
into agile leaders. There are three types
of reflections; one, awareness-building. Two, transformation-focused. Three, state-setting. Let's take a closer look at each. Awareness-building reflection
allows us to notice our physical and emotional states and identify patterns of both. Some of the questions we
could ask ourselves here. "What did I experience today? How am I feeling right now? What have I given today? What do you experience
when facing change? What are my fears around change?" The purpose of
transformation-focused reflection is to identify ways to
improve and to learn. Examples of questions we
might ask ourselves here are, "What could I do differently
than I did today, next time? How can I make this happen? What did I learn through
this experience? What action could
I take to be more resilient in the same
situation next time?" State-setting
reflection allows us to intentionally set a
specific emotional state. Examples of questions include, "What am I excited about
in my life right now? What can I commit to
doing today to feel more energized than I
have ever felt before?" To get the most out of the
practice of reflection, I recommend getting
the thoughts on paper daily through journaling, again using handwriting
when possible. We have previously discussed
the benefits of handwriting. These include creativity, short and long-term
memory recall, and a better quality
of processing. If we reflect only in our minds, we will be lucky to get any of the benefits that
reflections typically offer. Our brain capacity is
limited and it would be very difficult to
hold on to new ideas, experiences, conclusions
and reflections in clear focus at all times. There are many ways you
could start your journaling. Maybe writing twice a day, or maybe multiple times a day, or maybe at night
or in the morning. You have to experiment and see what frequency
works best for you. Start small and evolve as you get some consistency
behind your practice. Complete the reflection
exercise in your workbook. I'll see you in the next lesson.