Welcome, and let's get started. Susan Fiske is the professor of Psychology and Public Affairs
at Princeton University. In her book, Social Beings; Core Motives In
Social Psychology, Fiske explored the question
of why people do what they do by examining the motives that shape our
relationships with others, with self and within groups. Fiske's model of
social motives bridges the gap between social
psychology in change management. Essentially, these five motives serve as underlying themes, not only when we study human
behavior in social systems, but also when we apply
change management theories. In change management, we always aim to account for
these five themes and ensure that we address
each and every one of them as we
implement new initiatives. Because a subject of social
motives is extremely complex, we could easily dedicate a full course to do
a deep dive into it. In this and the next few lessons, I will try to summarize the theory for you
and equip you with the main points that
were helpful to me as I was learning the ropes
of change management. Fiske's core social motives
are, understanding, belonging, controlling,
trusting, and self-enhancing. According to the model, these five motives are fundamental
psychological processes, a combination of which helps
people assimilate better within groups and thus creates
higher odds of survival. The first two are belonging
and understanding, let's now take a look at
how Fiske defines them. Belonging is the need to create and maintain social connections. It's at the core of the model. Aristotle said that humans are social animals and belonging is what humans need to maintain well-being and
thrive in societies. Our tribal existence
confirms this idea. Tribes helped us survive and also fulfill our need to belong to something bigger than ourselves. In the organizations, the perceived level of
belonging manifests in loyalty to an organization and also shapes and organizational
and team culture. Team and organizational culture can either support or
inhibit belonging. The stronger the
sense of belonging within the team or
an organization, the more invested the people are into the future of the
company or the team. As leaders, we can inspire
a sense of belonging by encouraging our team to contribute to the
collective vision, something greater than the
individual self-interest. Companies like Apple,
United and Google inspire employees by
setting a clear vision. Simon Sinek in his
popular TED talk, how great leaders inspire action, provides excellent examples
between a vision that inspires and the one
that barely motivates. If you haven't seen that before, I highly recommend
you check it out. During change, belonging
may be challenged. It's important to
reinforce belonging at the team and
organizational levels. Reinforcement of belonging should never fall off the leaders radar, especially during turbulent
times of extreme change. Understanding is the
need for shared meaning. This is the need for
knowing that you and the rest of the group
see things the same way, that your thoughts converge or in other words come
together at some point. Organization's
mission, vision, and values represent
shared understanding. During times of change, it's important to pay
attention to alignment between shared
understanding and reality. Values are being pressure tested and the misalignment
between what leaders say, what they do and how the rest of organization behaves will be brought to the forefront and examined with a magnifying glass. Belonging and shared
understanding are two foundational motives that we have to keep front and
center when leading change. If these two are
properly accounted for during change
design and management, they will yield
about 75 percent of success when implementing
new initiatives. In the next lesson, I will
share practical tools for building and reinforcing belonging and shared
understanding.