[MUSIC] Hi, it's great to see you again. In this lesson, you will learn about
three additional social motives. These are controlling,
trusting and self-enhancing. Controlling is the need for a perceived
dependency between a certain behavior and a particular outcome. The most prevalent workplace
example is performance evaluation. In theory, the more control, or in other
words, competency ineffectiveness, an individual possesses, the better
his performance evaluation will be. The controlling motive is satisfied
through clearly explaining to employees what is expected of them and how a follow through on this
expectation will impact them. In other words, this explanation establish is a clear path
between an expectation and the reward. When organizations and
teams embark on a change journey, control in competency may be challenged. This is why it helps to train
ourselves for a growth mindset so we can quickly adapt and
satisfy our controlling motive. Both individuals and teams need
support when undergoing change to rebuild competency and
regain control in the new reality. Trusting is the willingness of
an individual to be vulnerable and in need to see others as kind an good. According to a professor of change and strategy at the University of Amsterdam,
most people are inclined to trust others. He also adds that trust reduces
employee uncertainty related to change. Trust creates emotional
bonds between people. In these formed bonds, people have faith that the person on
the other side of the table is not going to cause them harm and pain based
on the vulnerabilities they share. Strong cultures have
a high level of trust and perceived fairness within teams and
organizations. According to the researchers, Mishra and Spritzer trust in management manifest
through concern for employees interests, strategic competence, reliability,
openness and honesty. Self-enhancing is the need for
maintaining self-esteem or improving it. It applies to both individuals and teams. On the team level, agile teams have an
innate desire to become better over time. For individuals and teams when
undergoing change, organizations and leaders can leverage the need for
self-enhancements of both teams and individuals to their advantage by
providing opportunities to learn new skills, processes and
build competency and effectiveness. By recognizing the self-enhancing social
motive, we can support employees and satisfying this need and align it
with the benefit of the organization. In the next lesson, I will share practical
ways of influencing, controlling, trusting and self-enhancing motives. I'll see you there.