Welcome back. In this lesson, I will share a few leader
tools for influencing, controlling, trusting,
and self-enhancing needs, that will help you support
individual and team efforts. While controlling, trusting, and self-enhancing needs can be managed by an individual
on their own, I recommend approaching these at both individual and team
dimensions simultaneously. Through mentoring
conversations, you can help individuals
understand these needs. Guide them on their
journey of identifying which ones might be satisfied
to a lesser degree, and help them uncover
ways to address these. There is no cookie-cutter
advice on how to satisfy these at an
individual level. Instead of trying to
solve these myself, I typically ask my team members how they could address
each individual need. Most of the time,
individuals come up with great ideas on their own with
little to no assistance. To support and
mentoring conversation, I like to use the GROW Model
developed by Alan Fine, an the American executive
and a performance coach. GROW stands for Goal, Reality, Options and Way Forward. Goal defines what we want. Reality means perceived
circumstances we're operating in. Reality means received
circumstances we are operating in. Options explain how we might move from the
reality to our goal. Way Forward outlines actions we see as worthy of our
time and an action plan. You now know the definition of each of these five
social motives. Use it to help an
individual frame the goal and then guide
them through the reality, options and way forward. By guiding, I mean, ask open-ended questions
and refrain from offering solutions unless
an individual asks you. Help me better understand the reality you are experiencing. What factor shape
reality for you? How would you move from
this reality to the goal? Wear all possible options
for taking action. These are a few examples
of questions that will help you facilitate
a GOAL conversation. Now, let's take a look at how to influence
self-controlling, trusting, and self-enhancing
needs at the team level. For the team dimension, I recommend focusing on building vulnerability and
improving the teams as seen. One of the practical
ways of building a team's trust in this team
is through lunch and learns. Lunch and learn is typically an hour long meeting
during your lunch break. That's focused on one concept related to a current change. You can provide food or ask each team member to
bring their lunch. If a lunch and learn is
facilitated via Zoom, it can still work well. Ask team members to
partner up and take turns at facilitating
lunch and learn sessions. The guiding question for a change-related lunch and
learn sounds something like, what knowledge and
skills will help us be successful at this change? Teams possess a
breadth of knowledge we rarely get to
see in full force. It's important to create the
opportunities for bonding and learning when your team
is undergoing changes. Ask team members to
partner up and take turns in facilitating
lunch and learn sessions. Rotate the sub-teams
at regular intervals. There are many benefits
of the lunch and learns. They create connections,
a sense of belonging, shared problem-solving, and legitimacy of
change within the team. To build trust, everyone
on the team has to commit their shared vulnerability and
it starts with the leader. The thing about
teams is that they don't consists of employees. They consist of people. These people have emotions, they make brilliant decisions, and they also screw up sometimes. Vulnerability is an
interesting term. There's a fine line between
showing that you're human and oversharing to the point of being perceived in-competent. Later in this course,
you will learn how to build a team
working agreement, which will help with
building vulnerability. Self-enhancing is the need for maintaining self-esteem
or improving it. To encourage self-enhancing, avoid using the
feedback sandwich. Which is a method of delivering positive appraisal of an
individual's performance first, inserting things that need
improving in the middle, and finishing that
width positive last. According to Daniel Coyle, this type of feedback is
not practically helpful. It leaves individuals focused on either positives or negatives. Based on the studies of
the negativity bias, we know that most people
focus on the negatives. Instead, split the
feedback sandwich into two separate
distinct components. Deliver positive appraisal
in short bursts, and have a separate focused
structured dialogue around the need for improvement. Team recognition platforms
provide a way to foster within the team recognition
that helps build self-worth. As a servant leader, it's your responsibility
to just suggest ideas based on the gaps in the team dynamics
that you're seeing. However, if your suggestion
does not get adopted, propose a different idea and ask the team to come up
with an alternative. Keeping team activities
fresh and exciting will help with building momentum for the evolution of the team, and will also support all five social motives by encouraging exploration
and discovery. Google is a great source for finding the ideas
for team activities. That's all for today.
Thanks for watching. In the next video, we'll
review the key concepts.